Add Entry: HTML Entities (#613)
Codecademy/docs: content/html/concepts/entities/entities.md

---
Title: 'Entities'
Description: 'Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved or other special characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Symbol'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-html'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved or other special characters. When parsing the HTML, a browser replaces the entity's sequence of characters with the character it represents.

Reviewer: including a little more on why entities would be used
```suggestion
Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved or other special characters which may otherwise be interpreted as HTML code by a browser. When parsing the HTML, a browser replaces the entity's character sequence with the character it represents.
```

---
Title: 'Entities'
Description: 'Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved or other special characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Symbol'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-html'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved characters which may otherwise be interpreted as HTML code by a browser, or other special characters that would be difficult to generate with a typical keyboard. In fact, using refrence numbers, an entity can represent any unicode character. When parsing the HTML, a browser replaces the entity's character sequence with the character it represents.

## Syntax

> Entities can take one of three forms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Entities are case-sensitive and can take one of three forms.
```

The first form references an entity by name:

```pseudo
&name;
```

The second form references it by the decimal unicode number:

```pseudo
&#number;
```

The third represents it with the hexadecimal unicode number, often with leading zeros:

```pseudo

> &#xnumber

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
&#xnumber;
```

```

So the `©` entity can be represented as `&copy;`, `&#169` or `&#x000A9;`.

## Entity Values

There are many, many HTML entities. The following are some common ones:

> - `&nbsp;` or `&#160;`: non-breaking space.
> - `&lt` or `&#60;` : The `<` character.
> - `&gt` or `&#62;` : The `>` character.
> - `&amp;` or `&#38;` : The `&` character.
> - `&quot;` or `&#34;` : The `"` character.
> - `&apos;` or `&#39;` : The `'` character.
> - `&copy;` or `&#169;` : The `©` character.
> - `&deg;` or `&#176;` : The `°` character.
> - `&euro;` or `&#8364;` : The `€` character.
> - `&bullet;` or `&#8226;` : The `•` character.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Entity Name | 1st Form | 2nd Form | 3rd Form |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Non-breaking space | `&nbsp;` | `&#160;` | `&#x000A0;` |
| Less-than sign `<` | `&lt;` | `&#60;` | `&#x0003C;` |
| Greater-than sign `>` | `&gt;` | `&#62;` | `&#x0003E;` |
| Ampersand `&` | `&amp;` | `&#38;` | `&#x00026;` |
| Quote `"` | `&quot;` | `&#34;` | `&#x00022;` |
| Apostrophe | `&apos;` | `&#39;` | `&#x00027;` |
| Copyright `©` | `&copy;` | `&#169;` | `&#169;` |
| Degree `°` | `&deg;` | `&#176;` | `&#x000B0;` |
| Euro `€` | `&euro;` | `&#8364;` | `&#x020AC;` |
| Bullet character `•` | `&bullet;` | `&#8226;` | `&#x02022;` |
```

I'm wondering if this sort of information is better sorted under [a markdown table](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/organizing-information-with-tables)? This way we could include the 3rd form for each entity.

> Here is a [extensive HTML 5 entity reference](https://dev.w3.org/html5/html-author/charref). Note that entity names are case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an [extensive HTML 5 entity reference](https://dev.w3.org/html5/html-author/charref).
```

## The Tab Entity

> There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the `&nbsp;` entity. So to render a tab in HTML text, it needs to be used within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace. Alternatively, four `&nbsp;` entities can be used.

Reviewer 2: I think this section could use some code snippets.

```
There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the `&nbsp;` entity. To render a tab in HTML text, it must be used within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace: 

[Code snippet with <pre> tag here.]

Alternatively, four `&nbsp;` entities can be used:

[Code snippet with 4 `&nbsp;`s here.]
```

---
Title: 'Entities'
Description: 'Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved or other special characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Symbol'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-html'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved characters which may otherwise be interpreted as HTML code by a browser, or other special characters that would be difficult to generate with a typical keyboard. In fact, using refrence numbers, an entity can represent any unicode character. When parsing the HTML, a browser replaces the entity's character sequence with the character it represents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Entities are character sequences placed in the text of an HTML document to print out reserved characters which may otherwise be interpreted as HTML code by a browser, or other special characters that would be difficult to generate with a typical keyboard. In fact, using reference numbers, an entity can represent any Unicode character. When parsing the HTML, a browser replaces the entity's character sequence with the character it represents.
```

```pseudo
&#xnumber;
```

So the copyright entity (`©`) can be represented as `&copy;`, `&#169` or `&#x000A9;`.

## Entity Values

There are many, many HTML entities. The following are some common ones:

| Entity Name           | 1st Form   | 2nd Form  | 3rd Form    |
| --------------------- | ---------- | --------- | ----------- |
| Non-breaking space    | `&nbsp;`   | `&#160;`  | `&#x000A0;` |
| Less-than sign `<`    | `&lt;`     | `&#60;`   | `&#x0003C;` |
| Greater-than sign `>` | `&gt;`     | `&#62;`   | `&#x0003E;` |
| Ampersand `&`         | `&amp;`    | `&#38;`   | `&#x00026;` |
| Quote `"`             | `&quot;`   | `&#34;`   | `&#x00022;` |
| Apostrophe `'`        | `&apos;`   | `&#39;`   | `&#x00027;` |
| Copyright `©`         | `&copy;`   | `&#169;`  | `&#x000A9;` |
| Degree `°`            | `&deg;`    | `&#176;`  | `&#x000B0;` |
| Euro `€`              | `&euro;`   | `&#8364;` | `&#x020AC;` |
| Bullet character `•`  | `&bullet;` | `&#8226;` | `&#x02022;` |

More can be found in this [extensive HTML 5 entity reference](https://dev.w3.org/html5/html-author/charref).

## The Tab Entity

> There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the `&nbsp;` entity. So to render a tab in HTML text, it needs to be used within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the fixed space entity, `&nbsp;`. So to render a tab in HTML text, it needs to be used within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace.
```

> There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the non-breaking space entity, `&nbsp;`. So to render a tab in HTML text, it needs to be used within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is an entity `&Tab;` (or `&#9;`) which nominally produces a tab character. However, it will not behave as expected because HTML collapses whitespace where it appears in text with the exception of the non-breaking space entity, `&nbsp;`. So to render a tab in HTML text, it needs to be wrapped within a `<pre>` tag to preserve the whitespace.
```
